docs/src/user/installing.md, before:

# Installing

The easiest way to install Ambient is to download the latest binary release from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/releases).
Currently, there are builds for Windows x64, Linux x64, and Mac ARM64. For other platforms, use the [installing from Git](#installing-from-git) method.

You will also need [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) installed with the `wasm32-wasi` toolchain so that you can compile Ambient modules.
Note that Ambient compiles Rust code with stable Rust, so you must make sure that `wasm32-wasi` is installed for `stable`:

```sh
rustup target add --toolchain stable wasm32-wasi
```

## Installing from Git

Ambient can be installed through `cargo install`, which will download and build the repository. Our current minimum supported Rust version is <!-- rust-version-begin !-->1.67.0<!-- rust-version-end !-->, as we use recently-stabilised standard library features.

To install the latest released version from Git, run the following:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient.git --tag v0.2.1 ambient
```

To install the latest version on the `main` branch, run the following:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient.git ambient
```

Note that if you are running a project outside of the `guest/rust` workspace, it is likely that the published version of the API will be incompatible with `main`, and you will need to specify the dependency manually.

### Building problems and solutions

- If you run into troubles building russimp/assimp, you can turn it off by installing with `--no-default-features`. See [this issue](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/issues/173) for more details.

### Build dependencies: Linux/Ubuntu

For the above to work on Linux, you also need to install the following build dependencies:

```sh
apt-get install -y \
    build-essential cmake pkg-config \
    libfontconfig1-dev clang libasound2-dev ninja-build
```

## Installing via asdf (Linux, Macos)

Thanks to [@jtakakura](https://github.com/jtakakura), Ambient can also be installed using [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) by running `asdf plugin add ambient`. For more details, visit <https://github.com/jtakakura/asdf-ambient>.

## Running on headless Linux/Ubuntu

To run on a headless Linux machine, install the following dependencies in addition to the dependencies specified above:

```sh
add-apt-repository ppa:oibaf/graphics-drivers -y
apt-get update
apt install -y libxcb-xfixes0-dev mesa-vulkan-drivers
```

Ambient currently assumes that you have access to GPU drivers (but not necessarily a GPU) in headless mode. This requirement may be relaxed in future.

## Dockerfile

A `Dockerfile` is also provided that provides a headless Debian environment with all of the dependencies required to run Ambient as a server. This Dockerfile is intended for development, not production, so it has more dependencies than are strictly required to run Ambient.

To build the Dockerfile:

```sh
docker build -t ambient .
```

To run the Dockerfile with `bash` in the current directory:

```sh
docker run --rm -it -e bash -v "$(pwd)":/app ambient
```

Commit message:

Make assimp an optional feature

docs/src/user/installing.md, after:

# Installing

The easiest way to install Ambient is to download the latest binary release from the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/releases).
Currently, there are builds for Windows x64, Linux x64, and Mac ARM64. For other platforms, use the [installing from Git](#installing-from-git) method.

You will also need [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) installed with the `wasm32-wasi` toolchain so that you can compile Ambient modules.
Note that Ambient compiles Rust code with stable Rust, so you must make sure that `wasm32-wasi` is installed for `stable`:

```sh
rustup target add --toolchain stable wasm32-wasi
```

## Installing from Git

Ambient can be installed through `cargo install`, which will download and build the repository. Our current minimum supported Rust version is <!-- rust-version-begin !-->1.67.0<!-- rust-version-end !-->, as we use recently-stabilised standard library features.

To install the latest released version from Git, run the following:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient.git --tag v0.2.1 ambient
```

To install the latest version on the `main` branch, run the following:

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient.git ambient
```

Note that if you are running a project outside of the `guest/rust` workspace, it is likely that the published version of the API will be incompatible with `main`, and you will need to specify the dependency manually.

### Optional features
You can supply these feature flags to get optional features that are disabled by default, e.g. `cargo install --git https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient.git ambient --features assimp`

- *assimp*: This adds support for [assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp), which loads ~40 additional model file formats, such as .obj, text based fbx and much more

### Build dependencies: Linux/Ubuntu

For the above to work on Linux, you also need to install the following build dependencies:

```sh
apt-get install -y \
    build-essential cmake pkg-config \
    libfontconfig1-dev clang libasound2-dev ninja-build
```

## Installing via asdf (Linux, Macos)

Thanks to [@jtakakura](https://github.com/jtakakura), Ambient can also be installed using [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) by running `asdf plugin add ambient`. For more details, visit <https://github.com/jtakakura/asdf-ambient>.

## Running on headless Linux/Ubuntu

To run on a headless Linux machine, install the following dependencies in addition to the dependencies specified above:

```sh
add-apt-repository ppa:oibaf/graphics-drivers -y
apt-get update
apt install -y libxcb-xfixes0-dev mesa-vulkan-drivers
```

Ambient currently assumes that you have access to GPU drivers (but not necessarily a GPU) in headless mode. This requirement may be relaxed in future.

## Dockerfile

A `Dockerfile` is also provided that provides a headless Debian environment with all of the dependencies required to run Ambient as a server. This Dockerfile is intended for development, not production, so it has more dependencies than are strictly required to run Ambient.

To build the Dockerfile:

```sh
docker build -t ambient .
```

To run the Dockerfile with `bash` in the current directory:

```sh
docker run --rm -it -e bash -v "$(pwd)":/app ambient
```
