docs/src/reference/asset_pipeline.md, before:

# Asset pipeline

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD024 -->

Ambient features an automated asset pipeline that is capable of loading and processing a number of assets and formats.

In a folder with assets, create a file with a name ending in `pipeline.toml`; examples include `pipeline.toml` and `hello_pipeline.toml`. The prefix can be used to disambiguate between different pipelines.

This pipelines will look at, but not necessarily process, all of the files adjacent to it in the folder. By convention,
our examples place their assets in the `assets` folder, but this is not necessary.

## Models

The `Models` pipeline can be used to compile a model, or models, to meshes that can be used by Ambient. Additionally, by
default, prefabs are created for each mesh. These prefabs can have components automatically added to them through the
`prefab_components` field of the pipeline.

### Supported formats

- FBX: Native support
- glTF: Native support
- Unity models: Native support
- Quixel models: Native support
- ~30 other formats: This support is provided through the [assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp) library. It is not
  guaranteed to be fully integrated. By default, Ambient is not built with `assimp` support due to issues with cross-platform builds.

### Examples

#### Basic models

The following will load `.glb` and `.fbx` files in the folder or any of the sub-folders.

```toml
[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
```

#### Different pipelines for different files

You can use the `sources` attribute to restrict different configurations to different files:

```toml
[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
sources = [ "physical/*.glb" ]

[pipelines.collider]
type = "FromModel"

[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
sources = [ "ghosts/*.glb" ]
```

`sources` accepts a list of glob patterns, so you can target a single file or a pattern to select all files in a
directory (`*.glb`) or sub-tree (`**/test.glb`).

#### Combining a model with textures

The following example is the asset pipeline for the [`material_overriding` example](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/tree/main/guest/rust/examples/assets/material_overriding). It applies a custom material to
the imported mesh.

```toml
{{ #include ../../../guest/rust/examples/assets/material_overriding/assets/pipeline.toml }}
```

#### Generating a pipeline in code

By using a build script, you can also generate a `pipeline.toml` using Rust code. For instance with a `build.rs` like this:

```rust
{{ #include ../../../guest/rust/examples/assets/generate_pipeline/build.rs }}
```

See the [generate pipeline example](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/tree/main/guest/rust/examples/assets/generate_pipeline) for a full example.

### Notes

- If you are using components in your prefab and are hot-reloading it, the incoming prefab will overwrite any
  corresponding components on the current state of the entity. These components should only be used for static data - that
  is, `max_hitpoints` but not `current_hitpoints`.

## Models

### Regular

Consumes model file formats into a hierarchy of entities, materials, and meshes.

#### Supported formats:

- `glb`
- `gltf`
- `fbx`
- `obj`

### Unity

Consumes Unity packages processing all meshes, textures and materials, and LoD levels into a normalized form to consume in Ambient.
Usage of a processed model during runtime is identical to `Regular`.

### Quixel

Imports Quixel packages.

Supports collections, LoD levels, etc.

## Materials

Import materials from a variety of formats. Overrides can be specified in the pipeline.

Detailed documentation is pending, but please consult the [Reference](#reference).

### Supported formats

- `jpg`
- `png`
- `gif`
- `webp`
- as well as other common image formats

## Audio

Detailed documentation is pending, but please consult the [Reference](#reference).

### Supported formats

- `ogg`
- `wav`
- `mp3`

## Reference

See `rustdoc` for a complete reference of supported pipelines, model importers, material configurations,
and the like.

```sh
cargo doc --open -p ambient_pipeline_types
```

Commit message:

Add output toml to docs

docs/src/reference/asset_pipeline.md, after:

# Asset pipeline

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD024 -->

Ambient features an automated asset pipeline that is capable of loading and processing a number of assets and formats.

In a folder with assets, create a file with a name ending in `pipeline.toml`; examples include `pipeline.toml` and `hello_pipeline.toml`. The prefix can be used to disambiguate between different pipelines.

This pipelines will look at, but not necessarily process, all of the files adjacent to it in the folder. By convention,
our examples place their assets in the `assets` folder, but this is not necessary.

## Models

The `Models` pipeline can be used to compile a model, or models, to meshes that can be used by Ambient. Additionally, by
default, prefabs are created for each mesh. These prefabs can have components automatically added to them through the
`prefab_components` field of the pipeline.

### Supported formats

- FBX: Native support
- glTF: Native support
- Unity models: Native support
- Quixel models: Native support
- ~30 other formats: This support is provided through the [assimp](https://github.com/assimp/assimp) library. It is not
  guaranteed to be fully integrated. By default, Ambient is not built with `assimp` support due to issues with cross-platform builds.

### Examples

#### Basic models

The following will load `.glb` and `.fbx` files in the folder or any of the sub-folders.

```toml
[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
```

#### Different pipelines for different files

You can use the `sources` attribute to restrict different configurations to different files:

```toml
[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
sources = [ "physical/*.glb" ]

[pipelines.collider]
type = "FromModel"

[[pipelines]]
type = "Models"
sources = [ "ghosts/*.glb" ]
```

`sources` accepts a list of glob patterns, so you can target a single file or a pattern to select all files in a
directory (`*.glb`) or sub-tree (`**/test.glb`).

#### Combining a model with textures

The following example is the asset pipeline for the [`material_overriding` example](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/tree/main/guest/rust/examples/assets/material_overriding). It applies a custom material to
the imported mesh.

```toml
{{ #include ../../../guest/rust/examples/assets/material_overriding/assets/pipeline.toml }}
```

#### Generating a pipeline in code

By using a build script, you can also generate a `pipeline.toml` using Rust code. For instance with a `build.rs` like this:

```rust
{{ #include ../../../guest/rust/examples/assets/generate_pipeline/build.rs }}
```

Which will generate the following toml:

```toml
{{ #include ../../../guest/rust/examples/assets/generate_pipeline/assets/pipeline.toml }}
```

See the [generate pipeline example](https://github.com/AmbientRun/Ambient/tree/main/guest/rust/examples/assets/generate_pipeline) for a full example.

### Notes

- If you are using components in your prefab and are hot-reloading it, the incoming prefab will overwrite any
  corresponding components on the current state of the entity. These components should only be used for static data - that
  is, `max_hitpoints` but not `current_hitpoints`.

## Models

### Regular

Consumes model file formats into a hierarchy of entities, materials, and meshes.

#### Supported formats:

- `glb`
- `gltf`
- `fbx`
- `obj`

### Unity

Consumes Unity packages processing all meshes, textures and materials, and LoD levels into a normalized form to consume in Ambient.
Usage of a processed model during runtime is identical to `Regular`.

### Quixel

Imports Quixel packages.

Supports collections, LoD levels, etc.

## Materials

Import materials from a variety of formats. Overrides can be specified in the pipeline.

Detailed documentation is pending, but please consult the [Reference](#reference).

### Supported formats

- `jpg`
- `png`
- `gif`
- `webp`
- as well as other common image formats

## Audio

Detailed documentation is pending, but please consult the [Reference](#reference).

### Supported formats

- `ogg`
- `wav`
- `mp3`

## Reference

See `rustdoc` for a complete reference of supported pipelines, model importers, material configurations,
and the like.

```sh
cargo doc --open -p ambient_pipeline_types
```
