docs/src/reference/getting_content.md, before:

# Getting content for your game

Content, including assets, is a key part of any game. For a polished game, you will likely want to
build your own content. However, for prototyping, or for a game jam, you may want to use existing
content.

This page lists some sources of content that you can use in your game.

For details on how to import the content, see [asset pipeline](./asset_pipeline.md).

## Characters and animations

- [Mixamo](https://www.mixamo.com): Free characters and animations.

## Models

- [Unity asset store](https://assetstore.unity.com/): Lots of content. The Ambient asset pipeline supports importing Unity models. However, ensure that the license allows you to use the content in your game.
- [Quixel](https://quixel.com/): Realistic scanned models. The asset pipeline supports importing Quixel models. However, ensure that the license allows you to use the content in your game.
- [Sketchfab](https://sketchfab.com/): Many models.

## Materials

- [https://ambientcg.com/](https://ambientcg.com/): Many materials.

## Collections

- [awesome-cc0](https://github.com/madjin/awesome-cc0): A list of Creative Commons 0 (CC0) licensed assets. These assets can be used for any purpose, including commercially.

Commit message:

add audio to getting content and improve style

docs/src/reference/getting_content.md, after:

# Getting content for your game

Content, including assets, is a key part of any game. For a polished game, you will likely want to
build your own content. However, for prototyping, or for a game jam, you may want to use existing
content.

This page lists some sources of content that you can use in your game.

For details on how to import the content, see [asset pipeline](./asset_pipeline.md).

## Characters and animations

- [Mixamo](https://www.mixamo.com): Free characters and animations.

## Models

- [Unity asset store](https://assetstore.unity.com/): Lots of content. The Ambient asset pipeline supports importing Unity models. However, ensure that the license allows you to use the content in your game.
- [Quixel](https://quixel.com/): Realistic scanned models. The asset pipeline supports importing Quixel models. However, ensure that the license allows you to use the content in your game.
- [Sketchfab](https://sketchfab.com/): Many models.

## Materials

- [https://ambientcg.com/](https://ambientcg.com/): Many materials.

## Audio

- [https://freesound.org/](https://freesound.org/): Lots of sounds from recordings to synthesis ones.

## Collections

- [awesome-cc0](https://github.com/madjin/awesome-cc0): A list of Creative Commons 0 (CC0) licensed assets. These assets can be used for any purpose, including commercially.
